A vital piece of a strong security
stack
There’s no silver bullet for online security, especially
when it comes to user authentication. That’s why
security architects need to apply multiple solutions
in parallel. We can help companies thwart attackers,
detect fraudulent users early, and prevent real damage
– without any extra hardware.
BehavioSec provides behavioral biometric solutions
that help prevent fraud and abuse by stopping
it before it starts. It integrates with traditional
authentication techniques to verify the person
behind the security token, creating an enhanced
security experience that doesn’t undermine the user
experience.
With BehavioSec for the web, you get real-time and
batch-risk analysis that makes sure users are who
they say they are. We use behavioral biometrics to
analyze their activities, and then you can take steps
accordingly. Speeding up the detection of fraudulent
users means significant cost savings for companies
and customers. It’s also possible to use BehavioSec to
get after-the-fact analysis of transactions, as well as
data comparison against a known user base.
Key features
•	 Continuous authentication means protection is
always active
•	 Adaptive security that isn’t limited to specific
computers or locations
•	 Dynamic machine learning that adapts to natural
changes in user behavior
•	 Transparent layer of security that doesn’t ask
anything of the user
Key benefits
•	 Increased protection from unauthorized usage
•	 Cost-efficient, with no need for special hardware
or tokens
•	 Easy to integrate into existing web infrastructures
•	 Server-based, with no client-side software
A new type of risk
management factor
The score provided by the BehavioSec algorithm
can also be used with existing solutions for risk
mitigation, or alternatively, can be used to request
a step-up authentication, in real-time, to combat
fraud at the moment it’s being attempted.
BehavioSec is easy to deploy with your existing
web infrastructure. The BehavioSec partner
network offers other architectures and platforms
that are made available through the use of third
party products such as risk engines & versatile
authentication servers.
The user-friendly security
layer
Where existing token-based products (such
as PKI and OTP) provide verification from the
token, they don’t verify that the user that is initiating
Press Flight Sequence Mouse
and verifying a transaction is the correct person.
BehavioSec complements existing user management
services with a risk analysis of the user’s behavioral
pattern.
It’s a smart solution for organizations looking for
something to fill the gap between low-security or
weak user passwords and the overhead and hassle
of extra hardware like physical tokens. Regardless of
the authentication event taking place, BehavioSec will
transparently verify a user’s authenticity by comparing
their behavior against the correct user’s known
patterns.
Continuous authentication can be used on every login
and every transaction to determine the likelihood that
this is the person who actually owns the account.
How does it work?
Each person has a unique rhythm when interacting
with a web page or mobile device, which is reflected
in their keystroke dynamics. By timing each key press
and analyzing the timing deltas to subsequent key
action (up & down) for each key pair, BehavioSec
builds up a profile of the user to be used in order
to detect consistency. Through this analysis the
software collects data about the user’s normal usage
patterns and attaches this small statistical data to
any transaction. The server side software will perform
a risk analysis on the data and give a scoring of the
similarity to the correct user.
BehavioSec monitors the behaviour following a
lightweight three step model:
First. Collect behavioral data
BehavioSec’s JavaScript collector plugs into the
business application and starts learning each
customer’s behavior. All data is collected to verify
that the behavior matches previous activity from this
specific user ID. It doesn’t look at random behavior
– it looks at data your customers produce about
themselves, through their own transactions.
Second. Analyze statistics
By looking at users’ various behavioral patterns
and movements, the software can determine a
risk level for each transaction, send alarms to alert
investigators, and, if existing infrastructure is in place,
take steps to prevent fraudulent usage through a
step-up authentication. A detailed forensic trail of
the events and a comparison against specific fraud
profiles identified is presented in the management
dashboard to allow thorough investigations and speed
up the fraud case management.
Third. Update user profile
Every time a user logs in and uses their account,
BehavioSec evaluates their behavior against their
and all other individuals’ history. Because people
change, grow, learn or get tired or injured, the software
continuously and automatically adapts to the changes
in their behavior and updates risk evaluations -- no
manual configuration needed.
Find out if BehavioSec is right for you and your
customers at behaviosec.com or email contact@
behaviosec.com.